as several states across the nation
begin to restart their economies Ohio
will continue to cautiously reopen more
businesses today including construction
manufacturing distribution and general
offices and joining us now Republican
governor Mike DeWine of Ohio governor
thank you so much for being with us
again we greatly appreciate it and we
thank you for as somebody who has
relatives in Ohio I thank you so much
for your leadership in that state can
you talk about where we are today as we
as when early May the balancing act that
you're having to do between getting Ohio
back to work but also keeping Ohioans
Ohio citizens safe even as the death
toll continues to rise well there's a
balancing act there's no doubt about I
told Ohioans on Friday I said look we
can do two things at once we can til
continue to do the social distancing we
can be safe and then we can slowly move
back in what we did is we put working
groups together of business men and
women who are in those different
professions or businesses for example we
had this weekend weekend
excuse me a working group on restaurants
that we're working talking about how the
best practices would be so so today we
do start back with manufacturing of
course a lot of manufacturing was
already deemed essential but what we
have now is a lot more testing than we
had before we spent some time this
weekend working on on the testing and
the tracing and that's going to be such
a big part as we as we move back talk
about some of the balancing acts how do
you get parts of the Ohio economy going
again
well while making sure that residents of
your state remain safe and you don't see
a huge spike what are some of the
specifics that your business council
came up with well they had some good
business practices for example they said
that every employee in the companies of
their opening today and
the ones that are do open every employee
should wear a mask every employee of
course they should have the the
distancing barriers should be built
where the distancing could not actually
occur these are basic things that
wouldn't shock anybody I don't think but
you know all employees were in masks
taking checking with each employee every
single day to see how their their health
is these are blocking and tackling basic
things but they're all laid out very
very carefully we're doing the same
thing with with with restaurants we're
gonna do the same thing with with hair
we have working group working on this
weekend so we're trying to do it in a
way that it's not only its safest we can
make it but in a way that engenders some
confidence in the people of the state of
Ohio because if people aren't feel safe
if they don't feel safe they're not
going to go to a restaurant they're not
going to go out they're not going to go
to retail so it's it's a process for a
lot of people it's not fast enough I
fully understand that some people think
it's too fast
but there are real social consequences
and their medical consequences as you
all have talked about in the past for an
economy that is as down as this one is
you see depression going up you see
other you see domestic violence
historically we don't have any real new
figures for this but you know those
things happen so we got to balance these
two things and it's it's a delicate it's
a delicate balance I'm going to start my
press conference today with the people
of Ohio and talking about we've had some
real success in the last couple of weeks
in regard to our hospitalizations
they're not going down dramatically but
they're going down a little bit I'm
going to show them that and say look we
got to just keep going as we open up we
got to keep keep focusing on the basics
of social distancing and it's the Ohio
ones who have got us here it's not been
made it's Ohioans who have said yeah
we're going to stay home or we're not
going to be mixing with a big a big
group of people and so we just have to
continue to do that that distance thing
to be careful we're not requiring it but
urging everyone who goes out into retail
you know we're a mass that is for that's
not for you that's for someone else and
it's it's if you can do it some people
physically can't for some reason to it
but if you can do it that's the right
thing to do and you're just saying
showing concern for someone else so it's
those things that Ohioans have been
doing we got to keep doing at the same
time we work to get the economy back
Governor DeWine you talked about the
importance of testing the importance of
making sure that people are confident to
go back out there talk about how those
two things go together having a robust
testing ability for testing and tracing
and treating isolating those who need to
be isolated how important how linked is
testing with confidence to go back to
work to go back to restaurants to get
businesses going again well I think the
ability to trace find out when someone
who has it we're gonna have a lot more
testing so we're going to find out more
people who have this and then the
ability to and all this is voluntary no
one is required to do this but reaching
out to that individual finding out who
they've been in contact with been
reaching out to those people that that
person has been in contact I don't think
any Ohio one or any American you know
wants to infect people if they're
carrying the virus and of course is you
know Joe what's the problem the biggest
challenge is we have so many people who
do not show any indication that they
have the virus and they're carrying the
virus and that's that's one things that
makes it so difficult as we as we do all
of these things but we had a real break
ten days ago in regard to being able to
have a lot more testing we've got the
reagents coming in we're going to be in
a week we're going to be at about twenty
thousand capacity a day in testing which
is a marked change for us and a very
very great improvement we're standing up
a very robust tracing group we think
about eighteen hundred people around the
state so it's a work in progress but but
it's very very important and it enables
us to
slow that growth down in a way that we
have not been able to do that we've
relied pretty much so far on the social
distancing and people using a good
common Ohio sense our only defense
against it at this point
Ohio Governor Mike DeWine thank you so
much and we'll be right back thanks for
checking out MSNBC on YouTube and make
sure you subscribe to stay up-to-date on
the day's biggest stories and you can
click on any of the videos around us to
watch more four Morning Joe and MSNBC
thanks so much for watching